بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم Laylatul Qadr: the Night of DIVINE DEcree What is Laylatul Qadr? Laylatul Qadr, also known as the Night of Decree, is one of the most significant and blessed nights in the Islamic calendar. It is said to be better than a thousand months ( ~83 years) , and any good deeds performed on this night are  immensely  rewarde d.  The importance and merits of Laylatul Qadr can be found in the Quran itself, where  a whole   s urah  is dedicated to it. Surah 97, al-Qadr (the Decree, the Power). Indeed, We sent the Qur'an down during the Night of Decree.  And what can make you know what is the Night of Decree?  The Night of Decree is better than a thousand months.  The angels and the Spirit (Archangel Jibreel, peace be upon him) descend therein by permission of their Lord for every matter.  Peace it is until the emergence of dawn. Every Ramadan is  a chance for  us   to catch th is blessed n ight  and  earn immense rewards from Allah by engaging in acts of worship and good deeds. When is Laylatul Qadr? The exact night of Laylatul Qadr is not known with certainty, however, prophet Muhammad (peace and blessings be upon him) advised us to look for it during the last ten nights of Ramadan, particularly on odd-numbered nights, i.e. on the 21st, 23rd, 25th, 27th, and 29th. Many scholars believed it to be the 27th night, and this became a cultural norm for Muslims to consider the 27th as the night.  However, since we do not know for sure, it's best to engage in increased worship during each of the ten nights,  and especially the odd  ones.  Important to note that in Islam night precedes day  (e.g.  the 2 1st  night  starts at the sunset of the 20th of Ramadan). How  to  make the most of  it ? A hadith from 'Aisha states that:  "With the start of the last ten days of Ramadan, the Prophet (ﷺ) used to tighten his waist belt (i.e. work hard) and used to pray all the night, and used to keep his family awake for the prayers." To make the most of Laylatul Qadr,  o ne should strive to stay awake throughout the night and engage in worship . You can do any of the following: Recite the Quran: Reading and reflecting on the Quran is an excellent way to spend the night. Perform missed obligatory prayers. Offer extra prayers such as Taraweeh, Tahajjud, and other voluntary prayers throughout the night to earn additional rewards. Give charity: One can give to those in need and support charitable causes to show your thankfulness and earn blessings and reward. Seek forgiveness: Asking Allah for forgiveness for past sins is an essential act of worship which can help to purify the heart and set your account clean. Make dua: Supplicating to Allah for oneself and others is a powerful way to connect with Him and ask for His blessings. Make  dhikr:  remember Allah with praises and glorification, c ontemplate on the blessing you have in your life , and send salawat (blessing) upon His Beloved Messenger  A special dua for the night Imam  al-Tirmidhi nar rates that ‘Aishah (may Allah be pleased with her) said:  “I said, ‘O Messenger of Allah, if I know which night is Laylat al-Qadr, what should I say on that night?’ He said, ‘Say: Allaahumma innaka عafuwwun tuhibbul-عafwa faعfu عannee [O Allah, You are forgiving and You love forgiveness, so forgive me].”  May Allah grant us the success of   catching the night, spending it in worship, and  earning the blessings and rewards of Allah's mercy. Ameen! NamazApp, 2023 Download from Appstore / Play Store 
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم The Two Types of Purity in Islam One of the core ideas in Islam is  achieving outward and inward purity .  Having purity is  among the prerequisites of prayer . The Quran says: “God loves those who repent and loves those who purify themselves” (2:222) The Prophet (peace and blessing be upon him) said: "Purity is half of faith" (Muslim)  what is purity in Islam and how to achieve it? Purity is of two types: physical (haqiqi) and ritual (hukmi).  The two types of purity How to achieve purity? To achieve  physical purity , w e  clean our body, cloths, and place of prayer from impure substances. To achieve  spiritual purity , w e   perform wudu, ghusl, or tayammum depending on the circumstance.  In the following articles, we'll have a closer look into how to achieve both types of purity. NamazApp, 2023 Download from Appstore / Play Store 
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم Prayer Times Allah Almighty says: " Surely the prayer is a timed prescription for the believers. "  (4:103) Prayer times table The time of obligatory prayers E ach of the five fard (obligatory) prayers has a time period in which it must be performed. Fajr  stars with the appearance of true dawn. It lasts until sunrise. True dawn is when the light spreads across the horizon before the sun rises in the morning. Dhuhr  starts once the sun passes its zenith. It lasts until the 'Asr time. Zenith is the astronomical midday, when the sun is at its   peak. 'Asr  starts when a shadow becomes the same length as the object that casts it.  'Asr lasts till the sunset.  A strong opinion in Hanafi school is that the shadow should be twice the length of the object.  Maghrib  starts from the moment sun has fully set. It  lasts until the time of 'Isha.  It's best to not delay the maghrib prayer, as the time for it is relatively short. 'Isha  starts at the disappearance of twilight. It lasts un til Fajr.  The majority opinion is that twilight is no more when the sun's red color disappears from the horizon. Another opinion is that the white light should disappear too for 'Isha time to kick in. The three prohibited times There are three times during which we do not pray:  1. While the sun is rising 2. When the sun is at its peak (about 10 minutes before dhuhr starts) 3. At sunset An exception to this rule is 'Asr prayer, which can be prayed while the sun is setting if the person is about to miss the prayer. H owever, it is  prohibitively disliked to delay  'Asr  that much . When is it best to pray A general rule is that it's best to pray each prayer at the beginning of its time. Though for Fajr, it is advisable to wait for about 10 minutes to make sure that the true dawn actually began. Importantly, do not delay prayers till the very end without a reason, as it is a trait of a hypocrite to do so. Difference of opinion A s has been mentioned above,  some prayer times are subject to a  difference of opinion among the scholars. This difference can translate into va rying  prayer timetables.  Important to understand that  these opinions have  some  basis behind them . A beginner should  pick a  timetable  and stick with it most of the time , and not be  jumping from one opinion to another f or convenience. Staying connected Alhamdulillah,  we have the five prayers at these fixed time periods.  Allah Almighty made it an obligation for us to stay connected with Him throughout the day.  Praying on time with sincerety and devotion is of the greatest blessings a slave can attain, and a huge honor from Allah to us. He created   t he sun for us to  function as   a lamp and  clock , and facilitated the whole world for us to live, prosper, and be thankful . May Allah  grant us the success of worshipping Him in the best possible way as taught by His beloved messenger Muhammad (peace and blessings be upon him). Questions for self evaluation What is the main topic of the article? How many fard (obligatory) prayers are there? When does each prayer start and end? What are the three prohibited times for prayer? What is the exception to the rule of not praying during sunset? When is it best to pray each prayer? Is there a difference of opinion among scholars regarding prayer times? What do we do about it? What is the method used to determine prayer time in Islam? Why is it important to observe prayer times? NamazApp, 2023 Download from Appstore / Play Store 
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم Ghusl - full-body washing Ghusl is the ritual purification done by washing one's entire body with water. It enables one to perform prayers, recite the Quran, and visit a mosque. When is it obligatory to perform ghusl? One must perform ghusl when any one of the following three things occur: Orgasm -   the emission of sperm/sexual fluid; Sexual intercourse, even if without an orgasm; The ending of menstruation or post-natal bleeding; Thus g husl removes the state of major ritual impurity (janabah), and makes one pure again. Additional  Commentary Becoming a Muslim:  ghusl is also performed after one takes the shahada and becomes a Muslim, if any of the above occurred before accepting Islam. Friday Prayer:  it is sunnah of the Beloved Prophet (upon him be blessings and peace) to perform ghusl before the Jum'ah prayer and the two Eid prayers.  What can't be done without ghusl? Without ghusl one can't do any of the following: Perform ritual prayer (namaz) Enter a mosque Touch the Quran or separate ayahs Recite the Quran (even from memory) Perform tawaf around the Holy Ka'ba. Women's special states D uring the menstruation and post-natal bleeding women do not perform ritual prayers and do not fast. Such missed obligatory fasting days (of Ramadan) have to be compensated afterwards, i.e. she observes the missed fasts later (before the next Ramadan comes). The prayers, in contrasts, do not have to be compensated. Importantly, the rulings related to menstruation and post-natal bleeding are well-defined in Islam, however mostly omitted in this app for the sake of brevity. It is obligatory for sisters to learn them. How to perform ghusl according to sunnah? According to the sunnah of our beloved Prophet (peace and blessing be upon him) the ghusl is performed in the following order: Intention (niyyah) followed by saying "Bismillahir-Rahmanir-Rahim" (before revealing one's nakedness). Washing hands until the wrists. Washing one's private parts (front and rear). Washing of any filth from the body. Rinsing one's mouth and nose properly. Performing wudu the usual way (though washing one's feet can be delayed until the end of ghusl). Pouring water and washing one's entire body starting with the head for a total of three times. One should avoid unnecessarily wasting water or speaking. It is prohibited to reveal one's nakedness (private parts) in public places (e.g. gym or swimming pool). Ghusl while fasting A  fasting person must not let any water down his throat, thus that person should exercise caution when rinsing his mouth and nose. NamazApp, 2023 Download from Appstore / Play Store 
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم  ACTIONS ARE oNLY By INTENTIONS The Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) said: "Actions are only according to intentions, so each man will have what he intended. Therefore, whoever’s migration (hijrah) was to Allah and His Messenger, his migration is to Allah and His Messenger; and whoever’s migration was for some worldly gain, or to marry a woman, his migration is to that for which he migrated." This hadith is one of the foundational hadiths in Islam, let's look into some of the meanings behind it. Intention and sincerity in worship The hadith shows that our worship and good deeds must be done for the sake of Allah. This includes our prayer, fasting, charity, help to relatives and those in need, and all other types of worship. Intention  is an important criteria for our deeds to be  accept ed and rewarded . Shahadah also demonstrates the same principle. The phrase “I testify that there is no god but Allah” signifies that  He is the only One deserving of our worship . The opposite of sincerity is hypocrisy, and we ask Allah’s protection from it. Everyday activities can be worship Importantly, our everyday routines such as sleep, work, and family life, can become worship through intention. Why do we go to bed? To restore our strength, wake up in the morning for prayer, and continue a productive life. We raise children so that they become good Muslims, strong, intelligent and kind, and become a vehicle for a positive change. We treat all people justly because they are the creation of Allah, and have God-given dignity and rights. On the other hand, worship without a correct intention may not actually count.  For example,  prayers done to impress people or “out of habit”. Success comes only from Allah Of course, being sincere is difficult, and often we have a mix of several motives in our actions.  Absolute sincerity is the success that comes only from Allah.  What do we do then? We should ask Allah the Almighty to make us sincere, then try our best, and analyze why we do what we do.  To avoid being proud of ourselves, we should treat e very opportunity to do  good   as  a gift from  Allah , and a reason to be grateful. Seek knowledge It is important to note that a wrong action remains wrong even if the intention is good. In other words, one cannot act unjustly towards oneself and others, with the excuse that "my intentions are good." We make our good deeds meaningful through sincerity in the heart, and we confirm our intentions through good deeds. The meaning of migration (hijrah) T he “migration” (in Arabic “hijrah”), which is referred to in the hadith, is the migration of the first Muslims from Mecca to Al-Medina. They had to leave their home because of being persecuted.  Some even had to leave behind all their wealth, as the Meccans wouldn’t let them migrate with their belongings.  Such cases were repeated in history, and Muslims had to emigrate to other lands in order to maintain the opportunity to practice Islam. In a peaceful context, migration is more of a spiritual act, when a person firmly decides to leave sin and do what Allah has commanded.  Therefore, the decision to start praying and to leave the «haram» is also a migration.  May Allah make us sincere and accept our deeds! NamazApp, 2023 Download from Appstore / Play Store 
بسم الله و الصلاة و السلام على رسول الله Namaz App: Learning for Beginners Namaz (a.k.a Salah) is the daily Muslim prayer as taught by  the beloved prophet Muhammad (peace and blessing be upon him). This is the content library for a beginner. The intention is to bring together the necessary minimum for one to correctly perform prayer. InshaAllah this will allow people to get a good foundation to further build upon. Getting started What is Namaz The declaration of faith Prayer categories Prayer Prerequisites Prerequisites overview ( coming soon ) Prayer times Covering the body ( coming soon ) Intention and direction ( coming soon ) Taharah: Physical purity The two types of purity Physical Impurities How to remove physical impurities Istinja - cleaning after toilet Taharah: Ritual Purity Ghusl - full-body washing Wudu - ablution Tayammum - dry purification Inside the Prayer Integral c omponents  overview  ( coming soon ) Opening Takbeer and Recitation  ( coming soon ) Bowing and Prostration  ( coming soon ) Sitting and final salams  ( coming soon ) Basics of Belief Belief in Allah  ( coming soon ) Belief in angels  ( coming soon ) Belief in Books and messengers (peace be upon them)  ( coming soon ) Belief in the Final Day  ( coming soon ) Belief in the Destiny Strengthen your iman Intention and Sincerity Islam, Iman, and Ihsan The Messenger (peace and blessings be upon him)  ( coming soon ) Ramadan Ramadan FAQ Taraweeh Prayer Laylatul-Qadr :  The Night of Divine Decree Contact us Email us at  mslmdevs@gmail.com Message us on  WhatsApp Subscribe to our  Youtube channel Support us by  Donating Our mission is simple: draw Muslims closer to Allah NamazApp, 2023 Download from Appstore / Play Store 
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم P rayer CATEGORIES Table of prayer categories and rakaat* * Rak'ah (pl. rakaat) is a basic prayer unit consisting of standing, bowing, prostrating, and sitting together with reciting the Quran and dua. Prayer categories explained There are several categories of prayer in Islam, and each category has a certain priority and importance. The four categories are fard, wajib, sunnah, and nafl. Fard - obligatory:  t hey are the five obligatory daily prayers. That's what a beginner should start from. Praying them has the greatest reward, and not praying them is a grave sin. Wajib - close to obligatory:  wajib  is also obligatory according to the Hanafi school of law. However, this category is not the same level as fard. A prominent example of such prayer is Witr, prayed after 'Isha. It is the most important prayer after the fard. Sunnah - emphasized and non-emphasized:  these  are the recommended prayers that were performed regularly by the prophet Muhammad (peace and blessing be upon him). They are of two categories: emphasized (muakkadah) and non-emphasized (ghayr muakkadah) , while t he most important  among  them is  the sunnah  of Fajr. The emphasized sunnah s  should eventually become a part of your daily practice  on top of   obligatory prayers . Nafl - optional:  n afl prayer are optional prayers that can be prayed almost at any time, and praying them is rewarded. However, not praying them is not sinful. They are indeed optional, and go on top of all the other prayer categories. Conclusion: a beginner starts from the fard Some  prayers  are more important than others, s o  we  adopt them  in the order of priority.  This categorization brings a great ease to beginners, and gives us the understanding that all good actions in life have certain priority, and we start from the most important ones. Thus, a   beginner should start from the fard prayers, and make them an integral part of his/her life. Once the fard is established, the beginner should proceed to other prayers in the order of importance. Assess your strength correctly, and proceed with firmness.  May Allah give us the wisdom to see the priorities of things and grant us the success to act in accordance with that wisdom. Ameen! NamazApp, 2023 Download from Appstore / Play Store 
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم Physical Impurities (Haqiqi) Physical (haqiqi) impurities are substances considered impure by the Shari’ah. In other words, all things and substances are pure, unless the shari'ah says otherwise.  The basic ruling with regard to all substances is that they are pure, unless there is an evidence from the shari'ah pointing otherwise. T hree common sources of physical impurities . Common types of impurities 1. Coming out of the human body: poo urine pus vomit sperm semenal discharge blood that flows from a wound 2. Coming from animals or birds: Blood that flows from an animal The excrement of all animals The droppings of all birds that can't fly The flesh of dead animals and birds not slaughtered properly The urine, milk and meat of animals whose meat is forbiden to consume The sweat and saliva of dogs and pigs The leather items made from from the skin of a pig Droppings of birds that can fly but are considered forbiden to eat (weak impurity) 3. Alcohol related: Wine made from grapes or dates Other types of alcohol made for consumption Synthetic alcohol (some scholars consider it pure)  For the prayer to be valid, one's body, cloth and place of prayer have to be clean from these physical impurities. In the next article, we'll look into how to remove them. NamazApp, 2023 Download from Appstore / Play Store 
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم The fast of Ramadan Ramadan is the month of fasting for Muslims. Fasting in Ramadan is one of the five pillars of Islam. During the month, Muslims restrain themselves for the sake of Allah from eating, drinking, and intercourse during the daytime. The fllowing are the most frequently asked questions on Ramadan. When is the first day of fasting? In 2024,  the first day of  fasting   will be around   12 or 14th of  Marc h, inshaAllah.   T he month  will last  from 29 to 30 days . What is the purpose of fasting? Fasting is an exercise in self- restraint   for the sake of Allah . Refraining from food, drink and intercourse  is  difficult because the y  are   the  primary bodily needs/desires. Leaving these needs during day-time in Ramadan  instills the quality of God-co nsciousness , which is ultimately the purpose of fasting. What is special about Ramadan? Why fast in this month? Allah says in His Book: "Ramadan is the month in which the Qur'an was sent down, as a guide to mankind, and clear proofs of guidance, and differentiator [between right and wrong].  So every one of you who witnesses the month, let him fast it, but if any one of you is ill, or on a journey, then an equal number of other days. Allah intends for you ease and does not intend for you hardship and [wants] for you to complete the period and to glorify Allah for that which He has guided you to; and perhaps you will be grateful." [Sura al-Baqarah, ayah 185] Can I fast if I'm not praying yet? Yes, you can. Fasting in Ramadan is one of five pillars of Islam, as is the daily prayer. Fulfilling one of the pillars is better than none of them. Also Ramadan is a great time to start praying and changing your life for better. What intention should I make before fasting: "I intend to observe the fasting of Ramadan for the sake of Allah." When does the daily fast begin? The fasting starts with the entrance of Fajr prayer time (at dawn). It is advisable to stop eating and drinking 5-10 minutes before it. When does the daily fast end? Break your fast at the entrance of Maghrib prayer time (after sun sets). It is advisable to break your fast with water and dates, and to not delay it much. What should I say when breaking my fast? You can say the following dua: "O Allah, I've fasted  for You, I believe in You, I fully trust You, and I break my fast with what You have provided." Also you can add an intention to fast in the upcoming day: "And I intend to fast the upcoming day of Ramadan." How important is it to have suhoor (a meal eaten shortly before the fast begins)? What if I overslept it, can I still fast that day? Missing suhoor does not break your fast. The main condition is that you do not eat, drink or do other things breaking the fast during the day time (from fajr until maghrib). However, try to not miss suhoor, as it makes your fast much easier. In Ramadan, the Prophet (upon him be blessings and peace) encouraged people to always have suhoor: "The pre-fasting meal is a blessed meal, so do not abandon it even if you take only a sip of water. Verily, Allah and his angels send blessings upon those who take the pre-fasting meal." [Ahmad] How important is to hasten with breaking my fast once the Maghrib time enters? Our blessed Prophet (peace and blessing be upon him) has said: “People shall be in welfare as long as they hurry in iftar (breaking fast).” [Bukhari and Muslim] What should I break my fast with? The Messenger of Allah, peace and blessings be upon him, said, “When one of you breaks his fast, let him break it with dates for they are blessed. And if you can't find dates, then break it with water for it purifies.” [Tirmidhi] Can I eat after fajr prayer enters until sunrise? No, you can't. The fasting begins exactly when fajr prayer enters (at the appearance of dawn), and it is advisable to stop eating 5-10 minutes before that. What if I ate or drank during the day out of forgetfulness? Is my fast still valid? Eating or drinking out of forgetfulness doesn't invalidate the fast. However, you must stop immediately once you remember that you are fasting. The beloved Prophet (peace and blessing be upon him) said: "Whoever forgets he is fasting and eats or drinks, let him complete his fast for it is Allah who has fed him and given him to drink." [Bukhari] Can I smoke while fasting? No, smoking during the day time invalidates the fast. Our sincere advice is to leave smoking altogether, and Ramadan is a good time to pull that off.  Can I chew chewing gum while fasting? No, it invalidates the fast as chewing gum normally has sugar or other additives. Can I brush my teeth with tooth paste while fasting? You can, though it is disliked to do so. If you swallow some of the paste, it invalidates the fast. We advise you to brush your teeth with tooth paste at night, before fajr time enters. And to use just the brush without paste upon waking up in the morning. What if I  bite  my  nails whilst fasting, does it break the fast? B iting the nails in itself does not break the fast, although swallowing them would break the fast. Also  b iting the nails, irrespective of whether one is fasting or not  has the status of disliked (makruh). D oes swallowing  my  saliva break  my  fast? No, it doesn't. Though avoid gathering a big amount of it and then swallowing it on purpose. Can I take a bath or shower while fasting? Yes, you can. Be careful to not swallow water by accident. What if I need to travel during the fasting period? Can I stop my fast and compensate it afterwards? A travelling person is allowed to stop fasting for the duration of the travel, and then fast the missed days later that year. It is advisable to fulfil the missed days before the next Ramadan arrives. Can I continue my fast while travelling? Yes, you can. As a traveller  you don't have to stop fasting, and can continue if you can manage it. How should I spend my time in Ramadan? Improve your worship, give charity, show patience and kindness towards your loved ones, help people and read the Quran a lot.  Try to gain good habits and aim to keep them after Ramadan. If you can, take vacation from work to dedicate more time and strengthen your relationship with Allah. NamazApp, 2023 Download from Appstore / Play Store 
بسم الله و الصلاة و السلام على رسول الله Donate to Namaz App We invite you to share in reward The goal of our project  is to  help  Muslims pray and be successful. What motivates us is a  hadith narrated by imam Muslim says that 'whoever guides to a good deed gets the same reward as its doer.' We hope that our effort is accepted, and that Allah makes us a means to many people becoming closer to Him. We invite you to become a part of this endeavour to  inshaAllah  share in reward and good pleasure of Allah. We want to make Namaz App a full-time effort NamazApp has been our side project since 2018. Alhamdulillah, we've come a long way.  Support us  now ,  so that inshaAllah we   transform your sadaqa into functionality and content for thousands of our users. NamazApp, 2023 Download from Appstore / Play Store 
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم How to remove impurities To be able to pray, we need to remove impurities from the body, cloth and place of prayer.  Otherwise the prayer is invalid. The Quran says: ‘Purify your clothing, and shun all filth!’ [74:4-5] How to remove impurities Washing with water is the main methods by which impurities are removed.  The Quran says: “And We sent down from the heavens water that purifies.” [25:48] Any other liquid substance can also be used to remove physical impurities, as long as it: flows easily;  is itself ritually pure;  facilitates the removal of impurities. Thus, any filth can be washed off the cloth and place of prayer to make it suitable for worship. There are also other methods of puritication, however, we are not mentioning them for the sake of brevity. An excusable amount A small amount of impurity is excusable if the whole combined area is less than 2 cm in diameter (like a medium-sized coin). If the area is more than that, then the impuritites have to be removed. As for the body, the main type of impurity is poo and urine. In the next article, we'll learn how to clean oneself properly after toilet. NamazApp, 2023 Download from Appstore / Play Store 
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم What is Namaz What is Namaz? Namaz is the daily muslim prayer, also known as Salat or Salah. It is one of the five pillars of Islam and the best way of worshipping Allah the Almighty. Is praying obligatory? There are five obligatory ( fard ) prayers, which every Muslim and Muslimah must perform daily. They are listed on the main page of this app. What is this app? This app is an audio player for you to listen to the correct pronunciation of the prayers in Arabic. You will also have the texts in English transliteration and some illustrations to help you navigate through the process. All content is in accordance with the rules of the Hanafi school of law. Is this app enough to learn how to pray? T his app is a good starting point. We are constantly expanding it, however, it is still not enough to learn all prayer rulings. Therefore, start with this app, but also find a prayer manual, where the prayer rulings are described in detail. Ideally, attend a course on prayer in your local mosque. Importantly, learn about  Taharah  (purification before prayer), we have a whole section on it in this app, and about the rulings of prayer (which part of it is obligatory, what is recommended, what invalidates it and so on). As a general rule, a Muslim person should keep learning and improving the worship. What is Taharah? Taharah  is ritual purification performed before prayer. Learn about  ghusl  (ritual bath),  wudu  (ablution), and  instinja  (cleaning oneself after toilet). These will give you the most necessary knowledge and enable you to pray correctly. What else do you have in the app? There are additional resources, such as short articles, recommended (sunnah) prayers, and audio tracks for surahs and duas. The fard prayers have priority, so do not let the "extra" items distract you from praying on time.  What if I have questions? Feel free to message us  by pressing   Contact the Developer  in the 'More' tab .   It will take you directly to a  Whatsapp chat  with us. Personal advice from developer Namaz is the main connection of a believer to Allah the Most High. Make a sincere intention and start from obligatory (fard) prayers. May Allah grant you success in your journey and ease your learning!  Alsalaamu `alaikum NamazApp, 2023 Download from Appstore / Play Store 
بسم الله و الصلاة و السلام على رسول الله Muslim  Developers As-salaamu ‘alaikum! We build technology for beginners to learn and practice the beatiful deen of Islam. We have two goals: 1. Make products that benefit Muslims. 2. Enable Muslims to create their own products and businesses. Some of our projects Joode App : Learn Arabic Alphabet Read Arabic :  The basics of reading Namaz App : Learn to pray as a Muslim Email us at mslmdevs@gmail.com Donate NamazApp, 2023 Download from Appstore / Play Store 
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم Istinja - cleaning after toilet What is Istinja? Istinja is the act of purifiying oneself from the physical (haqiqi) impurities (najas) after going to the toilet. The goal is to clean one's body and cloth from poo and urine to be able to pray. How do I perform istinja? Istinja can be performed by wiping with toilet paper or washing with water.  Water is preferable, yet toilet paper is also acceptable.  The optimal way is to first wipe with toilet paper, and then to wash with water three times (or more if needed).  Wiping and washing should be done with the left hand. Istibra - removing the wetness after urinating (for men) After urination, a man must ensure that no drops of urine remain in the urethra, which can be by squeezing the organ gently.  The aim is to ensure that no trace of wetness appears at the tip of the organ, otherwise, the remaining urine prevents the validity of one's wudu. Women need only to remain still for a moment, and then may clean themselves (istinja).  It is important to do the cleaning in moderation, and not waste too much water or be obsessed with worry that the substance is still left on one's body or cloth after cleaning. Follow the recommended procedure, and then proceed with your wudu and prayer. NamazApp, 2023 Download from Appstore / Play Store 
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم Wudu - ablution Wudu is a ritual ablution central to a Muslim's worship of Allah the Most High. We perform it several times a day to be able to stand for prayer. Thus, wudu is often called the "key" to prayer. What cannot be done without wudu? The following actions must not be done without wudu: Ritual prayer (namaz). Touching the Quran. Going around the Holy Ka'ba (Tawaf). Performing ritual prostrations such as the sajda of shukr, sajda of tilawah, etc. What invalidates wudu? When to perform it? Wudu is nullified by several things. The most common are the following three: Anything that exits from the private openings  (both rear and front) , including gases . Since gases are included, passing wind also nullifies one's wudu, and so does any amount of filth that exits and appears at the tip or edge of the openings. Sleep,  while   lying down or leaning onto something.  However, slight s lumber  or drowsiness while in half-conscious state does not nullify wudu. Blood or pus that flows  from anywhere in the body. Flowing means going beyond the place of exit, so if blood, for example, just surfaces without flowing, it does not nullify the wudu. Other things that nullify wudu are these four: Vomiting, such that one cannot withhold it. Loss of consciousness, insanity or heavy drunkenness. Laughing out loud, while performing a ritual prayer. Direct contact between the aroused private parts of a couple. However, if penetration occurs, then ghusl becomes necessary. Commentary Clean vaginal discharge does not invalidate wudu. What are the obligatory integrals of Wudu? Wudu has four obligatory actions:  Washing the face.  The face is from the top of the forehead to the bottom of the chin, and its width is from one earlobe to the other. Washing the two hands and arms,  up to and including the elbows. Wiping (at least) a quarter of the head.  The head is the area above the ears where hair normally grows. Washing the two feet,  up to and including the ankles. When washing the face, arms and feet the water has to cover all the demarcated areas, without leaving a dry place. The difference between washing and wiping is that washing must have water dripping, with the minimum of two drops. Commentary Thick beard:  for someone with a really thick beard it is enough to wash the beard's exterior above the face line. Substances preventing water:  all substances (such as nail polish) blocking water from reaching the nails or skin of the parts being washed have to be removed before performing the wudu. Wounds on the body:  If one has wounds, it is sufficient to wipe the wounds or the bandage covering them, and wash what is possible. If the majority of one's limbs are injured, then he performs tayammum instead of wudu. Not having ghusl:  if one is in state of  major ritual impurity (janabah), then he has to perform ghusl instead. Since ghusl involves washing one's entire body, there is no need to perform wudu separate from ghusl. How to perform wudu according to sunnah? To observe the main sunnahs of wudu, one should perform it in the following manner: Make an intention to perform wudu. Say Bismillahir-Rahmanir-Raheem. When in a bathroom, the words should be said silently.  Wash the wrists. Start from fingers, wash between them. If there is a ring, it should be move such that water reaches the skin. Use a toothstick (miswak). In the absence of a toothstick, the thumb and index finger of the right hand can be used. Rinse the entire mouth and the soft part of the nose three times. Wash the face three times. Run wet fingers through the beard. Wash both hands up to and including the elbows three times starting from the right hand. Wipe the entire head once, and hears with the same water. Wash both feet up to and including the ankles three times starting from the right foot. Use fingers to wash between the toes. Commentary Continuity and order:  one should keep the order of the aforementioned actions and do them one after another without breaks. Rubbing:  one should also rub the body parts while washing them. Wudu during fasting:  when fasting one must be careful to not let water down the throat while rinsing mouth and nose. Disliked actions:  one should not waste too much water, or use too little of it such that washing becomes wiping. Also one should avoid speaking while making wudu with the exception of making the appropriate duas. NamazApp, 2023 Download from Appstore / Play Store 
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم Tayammum - dry purification Tayammum is dry ritual purification which can be done in place of wudu or even ghusl, if there is a valid excuse for that. In what cases can one perform tayammum instead of wudu/ghusl? Tayammum is permissible as the replacement for wudu and ghusl in cases, when it is impossible or unduly difficult to perform them, such as: Being roughly 1.86 km (1.16 mile) away from water Extreme cold, such that one is likely to get ill as a result of using water, and has no means of heating it up Sickness, whereby one reasonably expects that using water will worsen his health or delay the recovery Wounds on most of the body Fear of thirst, such that the only water available is for drinking What types of earth can be used for tayammum? Tayammum can be performed with any pure substance of the earth, such as dirt, sand, limestone, stones, or dust. How to perform tayammum? Tayammum consists of following actions: Make an intention to remove the state of ritual impurity Strike the earth once and wipe the face completely with dust (or whatever substance is being used) Strike the earth a second time and wipe the hands up to and including the elbows completely After performing tayammum, one becomes pure, even if he was in a state of major ritual impurity prior to that. One remains pure and can perform prayers until his wudu or ghusl are nullified, or the initial excuse making the tayammum permissible is no longer there. NamazApp, 2023 Download from Appstore / Play Store 
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم The H adith of Jibreel (Gabriel) Umar ibn Khattab  ( Allah be well pleased with him ) said :   As we s at o ne day with the Messenger of Allah (All ah bless  him   and give him peace), a man  with pure white  cloth ing and jet black  hair  came to us, without a trace of travelling upon him, though none of us knew him .  Islam He sat down before the  Prophet (Allah bless him and give him peace) bracing his knees against his, and resting his hands on his legs, said:  ‘Muhammad, tell me about Islam.’  The Messenger of Allah (Allah bless him and give him peace) said:  ‘Islam is to testify that there is no god but Allah and that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah, and to perform the prayer, give zakat, fast in Ramadan, and perform pilgrimage to the House if you can find a way.’  The man said:  ‘You have spoken the truth,’  and we were surprised that he should ask and then confirm the answer. Iman: True Faith Then  the man  said:  ‘Tell me about true faith (iman) , ’  a nd the Prophet (Allah bless him and give him peace) answered:  ‘It is to believe in Allah, His angels, His revealed Books, His messengers, the Resurrection Day, and in destiny, its good and evil.’  The man   answered:   ‘You have spoken the truth.’  Ihsan: the perfection of faith ‘Now tell me about the perfection of faith (ihsan),’  and the Prophet (Allah bless him and give him peace) answered:  ‘It is to worship Allah as if you see Him, and if you see Him not, He nevertheless sees you.’  The Hour ‘Tell me of the Hour.’  said the visitor, and he was told:  ‘The one questioned knows no more about it than the questioner.’  The man  said, ‘Then tell me of its signs,’  and the Prophet (Allah bless him and give him peace) replied:  ‘That the slave woman shall give birth to her mistress, and that you shall see barefoot, naked, penniless shepherds competing in constructing high buildings.’ Then the visitor left.   I waited a while, and the Prophet (Allah bless him and give him peace) said to me,  ‘Do you know, Umar, who was the questioner?’  and I replied,  ‘Allah and His messenger know best.’  He said,  ‘It was Jibreel, who came to you to teach you your religion.’ (Sahih Muslim) NamazApp, 2023 Download from Appstore / Play Store 
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم Taraweeh Prayer What is Taraweeh? Taraweeh is a night prayer performed during Ramadan. It is prayed after the fard and sunnah of Isha prayer, and before Witr. It consists of 10 voluntary prayers, two raka'at each. What is the meaning of Taraweeh? The word means rest or relaxation, Taraweeh is a voluntary prayer performed after the evening prayer, Isha, every single night during Ramadan.  Important to understand that taraweeh is a recommended (sunnah) prayer. Therefore, if you are not praying the obligatory (fard) prayers yet, it is better for you to pray the fard rather than taraweeh. The general principle of Islam is that obligatory actions have the highest priority, then come all voluntary acts as addition to it. What is the virtue of taraweeh? Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever prayed at night the whole month of Ramadan out of sincere Faith and hoping for a reward from Allah, then all his previous sins will be forgiven." Taraweeh is an established Sunnah, and a great opportunity to get closer to Allah during the blessed month. How many raka'at are in Taraweeh? The strongest opinion is that taraweeh is 20 rakaat, i.e. 10 prayers of 2 raka'at each. This is what the companions did, may Allah be pleased with them. This is also the opinion of the majority of scholars. It is prayed in sets of 2 rakats at a time with the ability to rest after every 4 rakats. When is Taraweeh performed? Taraweeh prayer is observed at night any time after the obligatory Isha prayer but before Witr, and the Witr prayer is prayed after the taraweeh. Can Taraweeh be performed at home? Yes, Taraweeh can be performed at home. It can also be prayed in the mosque, and  generally scholars say it is better for men to pray in the mosque. However, the most important thing is to not miss it if you decided on doing it during the blessed month. How to pray Taraweeh Here’s a simple step-by-step breakdown of how to pray Taraweeh:  1.  Pray the Fard of Isha (4 raka'at) 2.  Pray the Sunnah of Isha (2 raka'at) 3.  Pray two prayers of taraweeh (2 raka'at each). 4.  Take a short break. 5.  Repeat steps 3 and 4 until you reach 10 prayers (20 raka'at) in total. 6.  End the night with Witr prayer. 7. MashaAllah, you've done it. May Allah accept your prayers! NamazApp, 2023 Download from Appstore / Play Store 
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم Shahadah: the Declaration of faith What is Shahadah? Shahadah is the declaration of faith in God – Allah, and in the prophetic mission of His messenger – Muhammad (peace and blessing be upon him). How do I say it? Below are its transliteration from Arabic and meaning in English. Transliteration:  “Ash-hadu an laa ilaaha illaLlah, wa ash-hadu anna Muhammadan 'abduhoo wa rasooluh.” Meaning:   “I testify that there is no god but Allah, and I testify that Muhammad is His slave and messenger.” What is  the meaning behind it ? Shahadah consists of two parts: The first part is the belief in one true God - Allah, the All-Powerful and All-Knowledgeable Creator of all things. He is One and Only, He has no partner and no opposite. Islamic faith is pure monotheism.  The second part of the Shahadah declares the truth of the Prophethood of Muhammad (peace and blessings be upon him), the righteous slave of God to whom God’s final message was revealed. We declare the belief in Allah’s messenger and the content of the message, i.e. the Quran and prophetic way, which we try to follow to the best of our ability.  Why is it important? Shahadah is the first pillar of Islam.  Declaring the shahadah with full understanding and intent is what makes one a Muslim!  We are then continuously reminded of this foundational belief, in the recital of shahadah during each of the five daily prayers, as well as many more pivotal moments in a Muslim’s life. What do I need to do after pronouncing it? After pronouncing the shahadah the person becomes a Muslim and all his/her previous sins are forgiven, it’s like starting from a new page. It is advisable to take shower to be in the state of purity after saying the shahadah. Then start learning about your religion. The best place to start is to learn about daily Muslim prayer - called Namaz or Salah. NamazApp, 2023 Download from Appstore / Play Store 
